So one idea that I'm kind of building
on is this idea of literate statistical
proming, programming.
So this is, comes from the literate
programming idea.
Which is that, you know, so here you think
of an article as a stream of text and
code.
There's analysis code that has, you know,
it
analyzes the data or does something with
data.
And those are chunks, and then there's
each
code hunk kind of does something with the
data.
There can be presentation code, that kind
of formats results and then
there's text kind of all around
that, which explains what's going on,
presumably.
And these literate, statistical programs
can be kind of weaved to produce
a a human readable document, and tangled
to produce a machine readable document.
So this all comes from this, you know,
idea of Don Knuth, all right.
So and so the literate so the literate
programming concept requires two things.
One is a documentation language and a
programming language.
And so there is one particular package in
I should have mentioned that,
that I am talking most about the R
statistical kind of analysis environment.
And so there's one particular package
called Sweave, which uses
LaTeX as its documentation language and R
as its programming language.
And it was developed by Friedrich Leisch.
And it has a nice website.
And there are other kind of combinations
that you can use.
And so, so one thing that I was interested
in doing is taking,
okay, is taking the kind of definition
that we had of having analytic
data and computational resul, and analytic
code, and say, okay, well, let's take
the process here, presumably the
article's, you
know, available, because it's in a
journal.
And then we, let's make this part
available, too.
So here's that, well, we kind of store
these things in some sort
of database of of, of sorts, and then make
it available to the readers.
So the reader kind of wants to go this
direction.
They want to take the article and dig in.
And articles and authors are kind of
taking their data and they're going that
way.
They're producing articles.
So the idea is to take these kind of
aspects of the of the
work and kind of store them in a database
to make it available to readers.
So, in the kind of literate statistical
program framework, you have, like,
your paper here, which has text and code
and text and code.
You take the code chunks and you store
their results.
So the code chunks kind of do something
with the data.
You store the results and the code in some
central, in some database.
Make that, you publish essentially the
database part along with the paper.
And so, and then this is the paper here
which, which is generated so that you
generate the figures and the tables and
the,
and the, from the materials stored in the
database.
So that's, so I, so that this, so we
came up, there's kind of two packages that
we have.
One is, this called cacheSweave which is
for, that I
won't talk about today, but it's, it
interacts with Sweave.
And the other one is called cacher here,
which is a stand alone package.
And the idea is that it, it's so, it
assumes that you have some code in an R
file.
And and basically, it, it kind of reads
your code, evaluates
it, and stores the results in, in a kind
of key-value database.
So, so the R expression, so the code
expressions, are all given kind of SHA-1
hash
values so that, so if there are any
changes that, you know, they can be
tracked.
And code can be reevaluated if necessary.
And the idea is that you kind of put
everything, the code and
data in a, in a package that you could
just give to someone, right?
And we call this, I call this the cacher
package.
So and the other people can kind of, can
get the analysis or clone,
or clone the analysis and look at subsets
of code or inspect specific data objects.
So the, and one assumption that I made is
that
other people do not necessarily have the
resources that you have.
And so they may not want to run the entire
Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation that
you did to get the, you know, posterior
distribution, or the histogram you've got
at the end.
So, I mean, they might just want to look
at specific end products of that.
Or, and then maybe, when they're, when
they see
the end products, they say, oh, well, you
know?
Actually, maybe I do need to look at the
whole MCMC.
So, but the idea is that, you know, you
kind of peel the
onion a little bit rather than just go
straight to the core.
Alright.
So and so the model is basically that you
have some code source file.
There's code that goes in.
There's data that goes in.
And out comes results.
Alright.
So so as author, the idea of cacher is
that it kind of parses the source file.
It creates directories and sub-directories
for storing things.
And then it evaluates each expression.
And also, if you run it multiple times, if
it,
if an expression hasn't changed it won't
run it again.
So it just kind of, it just load the kind
of,
it as it runs expressions, it caches the
results in the database.
So, if you run it again and nothing's
changed, it just kind of loads the results
back from the database, And then it writes
out a bunch of metadata for each
expression.
And so, and the, and then, once it's, once
you've kind of evaluated your whole
analysis, and, granted,
this might take a long time everything,
all the
kind of intermediate results are stored in
the database.
And and you can kind of wrap that up into
a package.
So that's the idea here with this
cachepackage function.
And this, it basically it just becomes a
zip file,
a package, and it can be kind of
distributed to others.
So that's kind of what happens as an
author here.
And so a very simple analysis.
You know, you're loading some packages.
You're loading a dataset.
It fits some simple linear model.
And then you, if you want to summarize
what the
fit was, look at the regression
coefficients, things like that.
And then you make a plot here.
So here you're just plotting some
diagnostics here.
So the idea is that any, any expression
that kind of has, that
does something then the results of that
something are stored in the database.
So if an expression doesn't do anything,
like maybe just
prints something to the console then, then
nothing is stored.
>> So when you say it does something, you
mean creates a variable or, or modifies a
variable?
>> Right.
So, in R.
>> If something is created in the
environment, then that is stored.
Yes.
>> So a figure, like you said, a figure
does not count.
.
>> The figure, so, yeah, right.
So, we don't store the figure itself,
right.
And then the idea is that the package
would have an identifier like the SHA-1
here.
And and then, so the idea is that you
could say, if you were writing an article
you
could say, well everything in this article
can be
found in this package and here's the
identifier string.
So it's ugly, but, you know, you can just
use the four, you can
use the first four characters, and that's
usually enough to identify the package
itself.
So on the reader's side then, if you're
reading something like this
in a journal, you could say, okay, well
I'll take this string.
And maybe I don't want to read the whole
thing,
but I'll just get the first four
characters out.
And you can clone the whole thing, right.
And so, and I'll get to the where it comes
from later, but.
And the idea is that, you can see, so you
can clone, you can see what files were
cached there.
And and then kind of go through the
analysis.
So some local directories are created.
The source code files and the metadata are
downloaded.
But the data themselves are not downloaded
initially.
Right?
Because it could be a lot.
You don't, and, so that's not done by
default.
and, but references to the various data
objects that have been created are loaded.
So that if what, you know, is the
idea is that these are lazy-loaded into
the environment.
Once you want to look at something, then
it gets downloaded into your into, onto
your computer.
And so the idea is, if you look at the
code
and so this is just some simple analysis
that I've done.
You can make a graph of the code.
So this takes all the data objects in your
kind of this simple analysis
that I've done, and it kind of map, graphs
how they've kind of come together.
So like these three things, this cities
variable, the classes
and this vars thing came together to
create this data.
And then the data was combined with the
quasipoisson function to create estimates.
And then, you know, so, and the estimates
were
later created, used to create this effect
and standard error.
So, I mean, that's the kind of rough graph
of how the analysis worked.
And so the idea is that, okay, well,
someone might look at this, and, and well,
and
of course, you have to do some reading to
figure out what exactly is going on here.
But the idea is, if you were interested in
this and knowledgeable a
little bit, you can say okay, well, I'm
interested in this data object.
You know, what was, what went into the
creation of that data object.
And so the this objectcode function.
You can grab the name of the object, and
it will show
you the, the specific lines of code that
were used to generate that.
So, you know, if you, if you have a file,
there may be many lines
of code, but only some subset of which
were important to generating a specific
object, right.
And so, and so these specific lines.
So, it turns out it's just 1 through 5.
But these specific lines of code were,
were what kind of created this data
object.
Right?
So there may be different types of objects
in the, in the analysis.
And you can kind of hone in on some of
them,
and say, okay, what was the coded that
generated this object.
You can also execute the code with the
runcode function.
And what it does is it it, it, it runs the
code, but it runs it in a
way that it just, that it just loads
things
from the database without actually
executing code by default.
So if you just kind of want to run it and
see kind of some results at
the end as a first cut, then it's
not going to do everything from scratch by
default.
And so, and so it's a lot faster on the
first go.
But then, of course, things that don't,
things that aren't still in the database.
So, if you make a plot, you know, it's
still going to
have to generate the plot, because that's
not stored in the database.
but, but by default it just loads things,
loads objects from the database to make
things faster.
You can of course just force it to run
everything from scratch.
And then it will just, you know, it will
do all the calculations from scratch.
But there may be, for example, there may
be
some expressions that you want to run from
scratch and some
that you just want to load from the
database, because they're
going to take, you know they're going to
take a long time.
But in our, not important, maybe.
So, the checkcode function evaluates all
the expressions from scratch.
So it doesn't load anything from the
database, it runs it all straightaway.
And then the evaluations are checked
against stored results.
So the idea is that if a function creates
an
object, when the author created the
package the kind of signature
for that object was stored so that if you
create the
object again, it'll check the signatures
to see if they match.
Of course you've got to set things like
random
generator seeds for this kind of thing to
work.
And of course, and then, there's, there's
another kind of side function that checks
each
individual data object to see if, you
know, any corruptions it basically checks
the signatures.
So you can load, so you can, you can look
at specific data objects and so, by, with
this loadcache function.
So what the loadcache does is all, is
it just loads, loads pointers to specific
data
objects that are kind of, that may be
stored on a server or something like that.
And the idea is that once you want to,
once you print something out to the screen
or you
want to make a plot, any time you access
the
object, it will transfer it from wherever
it's coming from.
So here the cities transferring from the
cache database file,
and then, each object has a signature and
that's the signature.
And then it prints, and then it shows you
what it is.
So once it's loaded into your system, it's
loaded for good.
You don't have to do it every single time,
just the first time.
And these are just different things that
you might want to look at.
That are transferred from the, from a
server.
So so the summary of the, basic idea of
this package is that you can, authors can
kind
of create, their, can kind of package
their analysis
in some sense, and then just give it to
people.
And then people can down, readers can
download the analysis and
look at, you know, specific objects or
maybe rerun the whole thing.
But there's some flexibility in terms of
not having to kind of
recreate the entire environment if it's a
very complicated type of thing.
So it's, I try, the goal, one of the goals
is to be mindful of
other, of the reader's resources and to
only kind of efficiently load things that
are needed.